---
layout: default
title: Room Meetings - SOCVR
---

# Room Meetings

Periodically SOCVR will have room-wide meetings where we discuss room policies and behavior. This page outlines what we talked about.

## October 2016

[Bookmark of the room meeting](https://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/october-2016-room-meeting).

### [Agenda](https://github.com/SO-Close-Vote-Reviewers/SO-Close-Vote-Reviewers.github.io/issues?q=label%3Aroom-meeting-2016-10+is%3Aclosed)

1. How do we handle motivated users with poor English skills?
2. "Be Nice" topic
3. Let's stop arguing daily about the appropriateness of close votes on specific questions
4. Should room owners be moderating room members actions outside of the room?
5. Room owner coverage

### Resolutions

#### 1. [How do we handle motivated users with poor English skills?](https://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-october-topic-1)

The room is not an English learning site and there was no real issue with this in the past. Each user needs to decide if their English skill is good enough for them to properly operate on Stack Overflow (answering is part of that also). We can always point them at canned reason.

#### 2. [How do we handle motivated users with poor English skills?](https://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-october-topic-2)

This was a single isolated incident that evolved into a big drama for really nothing. I think every party involved, including the RO team, understood what went wrong and learned from it. In the future, the ROs will try to be more responding to issues currently rising in chat, but it is important to add that everyone leads by example.

Just be nice. If you see something flagged and it could be inappropriate respect that someone felt that way and move on. We deal with people of all types from all over the world. There are going to be clashes and people are going to view things differently. Moving forward we just need to be more mindful of what we are saying and we need to not overreact if something gets flagged.

#### [3. Let's stop arguing daily about the appropriateness of close votes on specific questions](https://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-october-topic-3)

This is pretty much already covered in the FAQ: "4. Avoid extended discussion about a cv-pls. We don’t have to agree about a close request. We’re not a democracy. However, users that are posting cv-pls’es that are blatantly wrong will be told so. The final verdict is on the RO team."

If you're having a back-and-forth between two well-defined 'teams', it's gone too long. You know when you hit that point. A blanket ban on discussion about cv-pls requests would defeat the purpose of the room and be unhealthy. Once you start repeating reasons for open or close you are just hitting a dead horse. No reason to keep going on.

#### 4. [Should room owners be moderating room members actions outside of the room?](https://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-october-topic-4)

The room owners are not moderators. If something needs moderating, get a moderator. If it's a room issue, handle it in the room.

Let alone we can't do that effectively, we don't even want to do that. People outside of the room can do as they want, as long as they follow SO rules and guidelines. Of course, when links to questions are left in the room, it is expected that they follow the room's rules. But we can't kick a user because we disagree with something they commented on Main or Meta.

#### 5. [Room owner coverage](https://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-october-topic-5)

If we need an RO in the room 24/7 then something is rotten in the room, and if we can't make this room work with all of us it is not going to work with just some RO's around.

## August 2016

[Bookmark of the room meeting](https://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/august-2016-room-meeting).

### Agenda

1. Does the room/group need to be renamed to reflect the fact that it doesn't focus only on "Close" activity?
2. Do we need more *-pls options directly in the CV-PLS userscript?
3. What is the line for reporting 'all spam' or 'all bad suggested edits' for a particular user?
4. There's a fine line between talking about / trying to promote the room and... well, spamming and pissing people off. How do we / should we advertise the room? Does it make a difference if it's main or Meta? Should we have any guidelines on the matter?
5. Should SOCVR be involved in moderating the new Documentation portion of Stack Overflow?

### Resolutions

<!-- add this to each section -->
<!-- [Bookmark](link to topic start) -->

#### 1. Does the room/group need to be renamed to reflect the fact that it doesn't focus only on "Close" activity?

SOCVR is so ingrained that at this point it is impossible to change without confusion. Even though our reach has expanded close voting is still a major part of what we do. [We are a brand and it is not a issue](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/transcript/message/32059787#32059787) so we will not be changing the name.

#### 2. Do we need more *-pls options directly in the CV-PLS userscript?

Yes, [we want to do reject-pls](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/transcript/message/32059909#32059909) for suggested edits as trial [but we need to sit down and document the cases for such and then test](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/transcript/message/32059937#32059937). Candidates are: ties going the wrong way, obvious spam, rude, abusive and plagiarism.

#### 3. What is the line for reporting 'all spam' or 'all bad suggested edits' for a particular user?

[Unless posted by a moderator](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/transcript/message/32060084#32060084), [we will not post any links to users](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/transcript/message/32060005#32060005). This means no !!/allspam and no reject-all. Our rule is no links to a user profile.

#### 4. There's a fine line between talking about / trying to promote the room and... well, spamming and pissing people off. How do we / should we advertise the room? Does it make a difference if it's main or Meta? Should we have any guidelines on the matter?

Guideline: [If it is relevant to the conversation at hand, fine. If it is out of the blue then just don't do it](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/transcript/message/32060170#32060170).
That said, [on Main, you don't say anything unless someone directly asks. On Meta, you can give some details if SOCVR could be relevant/useful in a discussion.](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/transcript/message/32060212#32060212)

#### 5. Should SOCVR be involved in moderating the new Documentation portion of Stack Overflow?

We will only moderate Docs [for rude, abusive, spam and plagiarism](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/transcript/message/32060300#32060300). [There won't be any moderation of low-quality, off-topic or otherwise incorrect examples.](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/transcript/message/32060327#32060327)

## April 2016

### Agenda

<!-- add this to each bullet point -->
<!-- [Bookmark](link to topic start) -->

1. Can we ask for someone in the room to edit in a relevant tag on a question so that it can be single-handedly closed with the hammer?
2. Should we leave a comment under posts that were closed as a result of a cv-pls in order to let the OP know how to improve their question? If so on which close reasons?
3. Does the room/group need to be renamed to reflect the fact that it doesn't focus only on "Close" activity?
4. Are the activities of the room effective at meeting its goals?
5. What can / should we do to make our votes more effective?
6. Are we okay with having a lot of members being privileged Smokey users? Should only RO be privileged in SOCVR and let members be privileged in Charcoal HQ if they really want to?
7. Should we have an SOCVR Code of Conduct that all regulars are expected to follow, not only in SOCVR but also on SO / MSO / chat / any and all SE places?
8. Creating editing events as well as close events (specially while burnating tags); if so, coordination of edits needs to be discussed.
9. On smoke detector message where a post only needs to be edited, find a rule to avoid conflicting edits attempts. Example: we post a chat message "I will edit" or similar.
10. Should we move the [burnination process](https://github.com/SO-Close-Vote-Reviewers/SOCVR-RoomInformation/blob/master/burnination.md) to a meta question?
11. Should burnination be officially [undertaken by SOCVR](https://github.com/SO-Close-Vote-Reviewers/SOCVR-RoomInformation/blob/master/burnination.md#process) or should a new "Burninators" specialized room handle it?

### Resolutions

<!-- add this to each section -->
<!-- [Bookmark](link to topic start) -->

#### 1. Can we ask for someone in the room to edit in a relevant tag on a question so that it can be single-handedly closed with the hammer?

[we will not allow tag-editing for handing off to gold badge holders.](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-april-topic-1)

#### 2. Should we leave a comment under posts that were closed as a result of a cv-pls in order to let the OP know how to improve their question? If so on which close reasons?

[No, we should not leave comments under posts that were cv-plsed. It is left up to the user making the request.](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-april-topic-2)

#### 3. Does the room/group need to be renamed to reflect the fact that it doesn't focus only on "Close" activity?

[Postponed to next meeting](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-april-topic-3-part-1)

#### 4. Are the activities of the room effective at meeting its goals?

[So yes I'd say we see on a daily basis that we are effective at meeting our goals](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-april-topic-4)

#### 5. What can / should we do to make our votes more effective?

[We need a diverse toolset, based on each others need, we need to evaluate what we have now, improve them in the next few months and re-visit this topic the next meeting.](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-april-topic-5)

#### 6. Are we okay with having a lot of members being privileged Smokey users? Should only RO be privileged in SOCVR and let members be privileged in Charcoal HQ if they really want to?

[we are fine with members of SOCVR having permissions to run the bot. RO's will monitor for bot misuse and anyone can bring up odd behavior to the Charcoal room.](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-april-topic-6)

#### 7. Should we have an SOCVR Code of Conduct that all regulars are expected to follow, not only in SOCVR but also on SO / MSO / chat / any and all SE places?

[If SO rules aren't good enough, let's fix the SO rules.](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-april-topic-7)

#### 8. Creating editing events as well as close events (specially while burnating tags); if so, coordination of edits needs to be discussed.

[Is there any disagreement to having trial edit events?](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-april-topic-8) _spoiler: No_

#### 9. On smoke detector message where a post only needs to be edited, find a rule to avoid conflicting edits attempts. Example: we post a chat message "I will edit" or similar.

[I think this should be the same as comments when cv-plsing. Not required or officially encouraged, but a "nice to do".](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-april-topic-9)

#### 10. Should we move the [burnination process](https://github.com/SO-Close-Vote-Reviewers/SOCVR-RoomInformation/blob/master/burnination.md) to a meta question?

[I made a start here: meta.stackoverflow.com/a/…](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-april-topic-10)

#### 11. Should burnination be officially [undertaken by SOCVR](https://github.com/SO-Close-Vote-Reviewers/SOCVR-RoomInformation/blob/master/burnination.md#process) or should a new "Burninators" specialized room handle it?

[I think burninations should not be chatroom dependent. If a chat room wants to donate it's resources, that's great. A meta answer should be the main hub for burnination coordination.](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/108179/conversation/2016-april-topic-11)


## December 2015

The transcript is [here](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/41570/conversation/december-2015-room-meeting)


## November 2015

The transcript is [here](http://chat.stackoverflow.com/rooms/41570/conversation/november-2015-room-meeting)

